README.md, before:

# Discord Streak Bot

This project implements a multi‑server **Japanese learning streak bot** for
Discord. Users can keep track of their daily study progress simply by
posting messages beginning with `Streak:` in a dedicated channel. The bot
records each user’s streak, responds with encouraging messages, and
provides simple commands to view individual progress or the server
leaderboard.

## Features

* **Multi‑server support** – Each guild (server) can configure its own
  streak channel without interfering with others.
* **Automatic streak tracking** – Users post messages that start with
  `Streak:` and the bot automatically updates their streak for that day.
* **Commands**:
  * `*set` – Set the current channel as the streak channel (admin only).
  * `*streak` – Display your current streak in the server.
  * `*leaderboard` – Show the top streaks in the server.
  * `*reset @member` – Reset a member’s streak (admin only).
  * `*unset` – Unset the streak channel (admin only).
  * `*addrole <days> <@role>` – Configure a role reward (admin only).
  * `*removerole <days>` – Remove a configured role reward (admin only).
  * `*listroles` – List role rewards configured for the server.
  * `*help` – List available commands and their descriptions.
* **Persistent storage** – All data is stored in a JSON file so that
  streaks and configuration persist across restarts.
* **Secrets management** – The bot token can be supplied either via an
  environment variable (`DISCORD_TOKEN`) or read from
  `secrets/discord_token.txt` at runtime. Both methods allow easy
  integration with hosting providers like Fly.io. Never commit your
  token to version control.
* **Docker‑ready** – Includes a `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` for
  easy deployment.

### New in this version

* **Administrative streak reset** – Administrators can reset a member’s
  streak with `!reset @member`.
* **Role rewards** – Administrators can configure role rewards that are
  automatically granted when a member reaches a specified streak length.
  Use `!addrole <days> <@role>` to set a reward and `!removerole <days>`
  to remove it. Members can view configured rewards with `!listroles`.
* **Role removal on inactivity** – If a member goes more than a week
  without logging a streak (no messages starting with `Streak:`), any
  role rewards they earned are automatically removed. Their streak
  remains recorded but roles must be re‑earned.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

* Python 3.10 or higher
* A Discord bot token

### Local Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```sh
   git clone <repo-url>
   cd discord-streak-bot
   ```

2. **Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended)**

   ```sh
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**

   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Configure your bot token**

   You can provide your Discord bot token in one of two ways:

   * **Environment variable** – Set the `DISCORD_TOKEN` environment
     variable before running the bot. This method is ideal for hosted
     environments like Fly.io where you can configure secrets via the
     platform. For example:

     ```sh
     export DISCORD_TOKEN=YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE
     ```

   * **Secrets directory** – Alternatively, create the `secrets` directory
     (if it does not exist) and save your token in
     `secrets/discord_token.txt`:

     ```sh
     mkdir -p secrets
     echo "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE" > secrets/discord_token.txt
     ```

   **Never** commit your token to version control. It grants full
   control over your bot.

5. **Run the bot**

   ```sh
   python bot.py
   ```

The bot will connect to Discord and begin listening for streak messages
and commands.

### Docker Deployment

To deploy the bot using Docker, you can use the provided
`Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml`. This configuration builds a
lightweight container and mounts the secrets directory for your bot
token.

1. **Add your bot token**

   Place your bot token in `secrets/discord_token.txt` as described
   above.

2. **Build the image**

   ```sh
   docker compose build
   ```

3. **Start the bot**

   ```sh
   docker compose up -d
   ```

The `docker-compose.yml` includes `restart: unless-stopped`, so the bot
will automatically restart on failure. Logs are output to the
container’s stdout; you can follow them with `docker compose logs -f`.

### Updating the Bot

To update the bot code with zero downtime, build and deploy a new
container image then perform a rolling restart.

```sh
docker compose pull            # Pull updated image if using a registry
docker compose up -d --build   # Build a new image from local source
```

Docker Compose will recreate the container with the new image while
preserving mounted volumes, including the database file and secrets.

If you plan to deploy the bot on **Fly.io**, use the platform’s
secret management to supply the token as an environment variable
instead of mounting a file. For example, you can set the token with

```sh
fly secrets set DISCORD_TOKEN=YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE
```

The bot automatically reads the `DISCORD_TOKEN` environment variable at
runtime.

## Usage

1. **Set up a streak channel**: An administrator should run `*set` in
   the chosen channel. This tells the bot where to listen for streak
   messages.
2. **Start your streak**: Members post a message starting with
   `Streak:` each day they study or practice Japanese. Only one entry
   per day counts toward the streak.
3. **Check your progress**: Use `*streak` to see your current streak
   within the server.
4. **View the leaderboard**: Use `*leaderboard` to see who has the
   longest streaks in the server.

5. **Reset a streak**: Administrators can reset another member’s streak
   with `*reset @member`.

6. **Unset the streak channel**: Administrators can clear the streak
   channel configuration with `*unset`. After unsetting, the bot will
   ignore streak posts until a channel is set again with `*set`.

7. **Configure role rewards**: Administrators can award roles based on
   streak length with `*addrole <days> <@role>`. For example,
   `*addrole 10 @Dedicated` will give members the `Dedicated` role when
   they reach a 10‑day streak. Remove a reward with
   `*removerole <days>`, and list all rewards with `*listroles`.

8. **Inactivity cleanup**: If members do not log a streak for more
   than 7 days, any roles awarded for streaks are automatically
   removed. Their streak counter remains and they can re‑earn roles by
   logging streaks again.

## Project Structure

```
discord-streak-bot/
│
├─ bot.py                # Main bot logic and command definitions
├─ streak_manager.py     # Persistence layer for streaks and server configs
├─ database.json         # JSON storage for all guilds’ streak data
├─ requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
│
├─ Dockerfile
├─ docker-compose.yml
│
├─ secrets/
│   ├─ discord_token.txt  # Place your bot token here (ignored in Git)
│   └─ README.md          # Instructions for adding your token
│
└─ README.md             # This file
```

## Contributing

If you wish to extend or improve the bot, feel free to open an issue
or submit a pull request. Suggestions and bug reports are welcome.

## License

This project is provided under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file
for details.

Commit message:

feat: persist streak data in S3 via Bucketeer

README.md, after:

# Discord Streak Bot

This project implements a multi‑server **Japanese learning streak bot** for
Discord. Users can keep track of their daily study progress simply by
posting messages beginning with `Streak:` in a dedicated channel. The bot
records each user’s streak, responds with encouraging messages, and
provides simple commands to view individual progress or the server
leaderboard.

## Features

* **Multi‑server support** – Each guild (server) can configure its own
  streak channel without interfering with others.
* **Automatic streak tracking** – Users post messages that start with
  `Streak:` and the bot automatically updates their streak for that day.
* **Commands**:
  * `*set` – Set the current channel as the streak channel (admin only).
  * `*streak` – Display your current streak in the server.
  * `*leaderboard` – Show the top streaks in the server.
  * `*reset @member` – Reset a member’s streak (admin only).
  * `*unset` – Unset the streak channel (admin only).
  * `*addrole <days> <@role>` – Configure a role reward (admin only).
  * `*removerole <days>` – Remove a configured role reward (admin only).
  * `*listroles` – List role rewards configured for the server.
  * `*help` – List available commands and their descriptions.
* **Persistent storage** – Streak data is stored in an S3 bucket via
  Bucketeer (or a local `database.json` file for development) so that
  streaks and configuration persist across restarts.
* **Secrets management** – The bot token can be supplied either via an
  environment variable (`DISCORD_TOKEN`) or read from
  `secrets/discord_token.txt` at runtime. Both methods allow easy
  integration with hosting providers like Fly.io. Never commit your
  token to version control.
* **Docker‑ready** – Includes a `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` for
  easy deployment.

### New in this version

* **Administrative streak reset** – Administrators can reset a member’s
  streak with `!reset @member`.
* **Role rewards** – Administrators can configure role rewards that are
  automatically granted when a member reaches a specified streak length.
  Use `!addrole <days> <@role>` to set a reward and `!removerole <days>`
  to remove it. Members can view configured rewards with `!listroles`.
* **Role removal on inactivity** – If a member goes more than a week
  without logging a streak (no messages starting with `Streak:`), any
  role rewards they earned are automatically removed. Their streak
  remains recorded but roles must be re‑earned.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

* Python 3.10 or higher
* A Discord bot token

### Local Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```sh
   git clone <repo-url>
   cd discord-streak-bot
   ```

2. **Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended)**

   ```sh
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**

   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Configure your bot token**

   You can provide your Discord bot token in one of two ways:

   * **Environment variable** – Set the `DISCORD_TOKEN` environment
     variable before running the bot. This method is ideal for hosted
     environments like Fly.io where you can configure secrets via the
     platform. For example:

     ```sh
     export DISCORD_TOKEN=YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE
     ```

   * **Secrets directory** – Alternatively, create the `secrets` directory
     (if it does not exist) and save your token in
     `secrets/discord_token.txt`:

     ```sh
     mkdir -p secrets
     echo "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE" > secrets/discord_token.txt
     ```

   **Never** commit your token to version control. It grants full
   control over your bot.

5. **Run the bot**

   ```sh
   python bot.py
   ```

The bot will connect to Discord and begin listening for streak messages
and commands.

When the environment variables `BUCKETEER_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`,
`BUCKETEER_AWS_REGION`, `BUCKETEER_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and
`BUCKETEER_BUCKET_NAME` are present (for example on Heroku with the
Bucketeer add-on), streak data is stored in the referenced S3 bucket. If
these variables are absent, the bot falls back to a local
`database.json` file for storage.

### Docker Deployment

To deploy the bot using Docker, you can use the provided
`Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml`. This configuration builds a
lightweight container and mounts the secrets directory for your bot
token.

1. **Add your bot token**

   Place your bot token in `secrets/discord_token.txt` as described
   above.

2. **Build the image**

   ```sh
   docker compose build
   ```

3. **Start the bot**

   ```sh
   docker compose up -d
   ```

The `docker-compose.yml` includes `restart: unless-stopped`, so the bot
will automatically restart on failure. Logs are output to the
container’s stdout; you can follow them with `docker compose logs -f`.

### Updating the Bot

To update the bot code with zero downtime, build and deploy a new
container image then perform a rolling restart.

```sh
docker compose pull            # Pull updated image if using a registry
docker compose up -d --build   # Build a new image from local source
```

Docker Compose will recreate the container with the new image while
preserving mounted volumes such as the secrets directory. Streak data is
stored in S3 when Bucketeer credentials are provided, or in a local
`database.json` file if running without them.

If you plan to deploy the bot on **Fly.io**, use the platform’s
secret management to supply the token as an environment variable
instead of mounting a file. For example, you can set the token with

```sh
fly secrets set DISCORD_TOKEN=YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE
```

The bot automatically reads the `DISCORD_TOKEN` environment variable at
runtime.

## Usage

1. **Set up a streak channel**: An administrator should run `*set` in
   the chosen channel. This tells the bot where to listen for streak
   messages.
2. **Start your streak**: Members post a message starting with
   `Streak:` each day they study or practice Japanese. Only one entry
   per day counts toward the streak.
3. **Check your progress**: Use `*streak` to see your current streak
   within the server.
4. **View the leaderboard**: Use `*leaderboard` to see who has the
   longest streaks in the server.

5. **Reset a streak**: Administrators can reset another member’s streak
   with `*reset @member`.

6. **Unset the streak channel**: Administrators can clear the streak
   channel configuration with `*unset`. After unsetting, the bot will
   ignore streak posts until a channel is set again with `*set`.

7. **Configure role rewards**: Administrators can award roles based on
   streak length with `*addrole <days> <@role>`. For example,
   `*addrole 10 @Dedicated` will give members the `Dedicated` role when
   they reach a 10‑day streak. Remove a reward with
   `*removerole <days>`, and list all rewards with `*listroles`.

8. **Inactivity cleanup**: If members do not log a streak for more
   than 7 days, any roles awarded for streaks are automatically
   removed. Their streak counter remains and they can re‑earn roles by
   logging streaks again.

## Project Structure

```
discord-streak-bot/
│
├─ bot.py                # Main bot logic and command definitions
├─ streak_manager.py     # Persistence layer for streaks and server configs
├─ database.json         # Local fallback storage for streak data
├─ requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
│
├─ Dockerfile
├─ docker-compose.yml
│
├─ secrets/
│   ├─ discord_token.txt  # Place your bot token here (ignored in Git)
│   └─ README.md          # Instructions for adding your token
│
└─ README.md             # This file
```

## Contributing

If you wish to extend or improve the bot, feel free to open an issue
or submit a pull request. Suggestions and bug reports are welcome.

## License

This project is provided under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file
for details.
